Added Guide to Contribute Examples (#1387)
ManimCommunity/manim: docs/source/contributing/documentation.rst

====================

When submitting a new class through a PR, or any changes in general,
there should be documentation where possible. Here are our guidelines
for writing documentation.

Guidelines for examples
-----------------------

Everybody is welcome to contribute examples to the documentation. Since straightforward examples are a great resource for quickly learning manim, here are some guidelines.

What makes a great example
--------------------------

.. note:: 

   As soon as a new version of manim is released, the documentation will be a snapshot of that version. Examples contributed after the release will only be shown in the latest documentation.
   
* Examples should be ready to copy and paste for use.

* Examples should be brief yet still easy to understand.

> * Examples don't require the ``from manim import *`` statement, this will be added automatically when the docs are build```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Examples don't require the ``from manim import *`` statement, this will be added automatically when the docs are built.
```

* There should be a balance of animated and non-animated examples.

- As manim makes animations, we can include lots of animated examples; however, our RTD has a maximum 15 minutes to build. Animated examples should only be used when necessary, as last frame examples render faster.

- Lots of examples (e.g. size of a plot-axis, setting opacities, making texts, etc.) will also work as images. It is a lot more convenient to see the end product immediately instead of waiting for an animation to reveal it.

> * Examples should not have comments in the code. Explanations should be added outside of the example code.

Reviewer: I don't necessarily agree with this; I think code-comments make sense as well.

Author: I was thinking about that too, but I just copied it to make sure that you people won't find any difficulties. I will be removing line 33 then..

How examples are structured
---------------------------

* Examples can be organized into chapters and subchapters.

- When you create examples, the beginning example chapter should focus on only one functionality. When the functionality is simple, multiple ideas can be illustrated under a single example.

- As soon as simple functionalities are explained, the chapter may include more complex examples which build on the simpler ideas.

Writing examples
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When you want to add/edit examples, they can be found in the ``docs/source/`` directory, or directly in the manim source code (e.g. ``manim/mobject/mobject.py``). The examples are written in 
``rst`` format and use the manim directive (see :mod:`~.manim_directive` ), ``.. manim::``. Every example is in its own block, and looks like this:

> .. code:: rst
>     Formulas
> 
>     ========

Reviewer 2: This example doesn't appear to render correctly:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/29168469/115908614-3da38480-a41f-11eb-8ad0-08dac7a36c7a.png)

I think just a blank line is needed between the code block and Formulas. Also, the section doesn't need the newline so I've just reordered that here.
```suggestion
.. code:: rst

    Formulas
    ========
```

>  .. code:: rst

Reviewer: There is a leading space which causes the block below to be rendered within a block quote. Please fix.

```suggestion
 .. code:: rst
```

Reviewer 2: Editing your suggestion as it doesn't remove the space (GitHub is weird and always adds an extra space when I copy/paste too btw, not sure why :/).

    .. manim:: Formula1
        :save_last_frame:

        class Formula1(Scene):
            def construct(self):
                t = MathTex(r"\int_a^b f'(x) dx = f(b)- f(a)")
                self.add(t)
                self.wait(1)

In the building process of the docs, all ``rst`` files are scanned, and the manim directive (``.. manim::``) blocks are identified as scenes, that will be run by the current version of manim.
Here is the syntax:

* ``.. manim:: [SCENE_NAME]`` has no indentation and ``SCENE_NAME`` refers to the name of the class below.

* The flags are followed in the next line (no blank line here!), with the indention level of one tab.

> All possible flags can be found at :mod:`~.manim_directive`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All possible flags can be found at :mod:`~.manim_directive`.
```

> In the example above, ``Formula1`` followed by ``.. manim::`` and is the scene that will be rendered, so in the python code the class must have the same name: ``class Formula1(Scene)``

Reviewer 2: I was reading about admonitions using the sphinx Furo theme and think this would be suitable:
```suggestion
In the example above, the ``Formula1`` following ``.. manim::`` is the scene
that the directive expects to render; thus, in the python code, the class
has the same name: ``class Formula1(Scene)``.
```

In the example above, ``Formula1`` followed by ``.. manim::`` and is the scene that will be rendered, so in the python code the class must have the same name: ``class Formula1(Scene)``

.. note::

>    Sometimes, when you reload an example in your browser, it has still the old website somewhere in its cache. If this is the case, delete the website cache, or open a new `incognito tab`` in your browser, then the latest docs should be shown. If this still doesn't work, you may need to delete the contents of ``docs/source/references``.

Reviewer: The last part specifically is only relevant for locally built documentation, it should say so.

Reviewer 2: I also feel like this is a bit out of place... Up until this point, the reader might not have read anything about building the documentation locally and would likely not remember this note when it is mentioned. The only mention of `make html` is in the `Manim Development Process` section way at the bottom:
> * Documentation: We also build a version of the documentation corresponding to your pull request. Make sure not to introduce any Sphinx errors, and have a look at the built HTML files to see whether the formatting of the documentation you added looks as you intended. You can build the documentation locally by running make html from the docs directory.

Perhaps this bullet point should be moved to the documentation section? Or a more in-depth guide on building the documentation locally is prerequisite information?

Author: I am thinking the we should have a section explaining it in depth

Reviewer 2: Same; however, this should be done in a separate PR. For now, I still think the mention of it being locally built is necessary.

Author: It is mentioned I think.

* Please ensure the examples run on the current master when you contribute an example.

How examples are structured
---------------------------

* Examples can be organized into chapters and subchapters.

- When you create examples, the beginning example chapter should focus on only one functionality. When the functionality is simple, multiple ideas can be illustrated under a single example.

- As soon as simple functionalities are explained, the chapter may include more complex examples which build on the simpler ideas.

Writing examples
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When you want to add/edit examples, they can be found in the ``docs/source/`` directory, or directly in the manim source code (e.g. ``manim/mobject/mobject.py``). The examples are written in 
``rst`` format and use the manim directive (see :mod:`~.manim_directive` ), ``.. manim::``. Every example is in its own block, and looks like this:

.. code:: rst

    Formulas
    ========

    .. manim:: Formula1
        :save_last_frame:

        class Formula1(Scene):
            def construct(self):

>                 t = MathTex(r"\int_a^b f'(x) dx = f(b)- f(a)")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                t = MathTex(r"\int_a^b f'(x) dx = f(b) - f(a)")
```

                self.add(t)
                self.wait(1)

> In the building process of the docs, all ``rst`` files are scanned, and the manim directive (``.. manim::``) blocks are identified as scenes, that will be run by the current version of manim.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the building process of the docs, all ``rst`` files are scanned, and the 
manim directive (``.. manim::``) blocks are identified as scenes that will be run 
by the current version of manim.
```

Here is the syntax:

* ``.. manim:: [SCENE_NAME]`` has no indentation and ``SCENE_NAME`` refers to the name of the class below.

* The flags are followed in the next line (no blank line here!), with the indention level of one tab.

All possible flags can be found at :mod:`~.manim_directive`.

In the example above, the ``Formula1`` following ``.. manim::`` is the scene
that the directive expects to render; thus, in the python code, the class
has the same name: ``class Formula1(Scene)``.

.. note::

>    Sometimes, when you reload an example in your browser, it has still the old website somewhere in its cache. If this is the case, delete the website cache, or open a new ``incognito tab``
>    in your browser, then the latest docs should be shown. 
>    **Only for locally built documentation:** If this still doesn't work, you may need to delete the contents of ``docs/source/references``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Sometimes, when you reload an example in your browser, it has still the old
   website somewhere in its cache. If this is the case, delete the website cache,
   or open a new incognito tab in your browser, then the latest docs
   should be shown. 
   **Only for locally built documentation:** If this still doesn't work, you may need
   to delete the contents of ``docs/source/references`` before rebuilding
   the documentation.
```

* There should be a balance of animated and non-animated examples.

- As manim makes animations, we can include lots of animated examples; however, our RTD has a maximum 15 minutes to build. Animated examples should only be used when necessary, as last frame examples render faster.

- Lots of examples (e.g. size of a plot-axis, setting opacities, making texts, etc.) will also work as images. It is a lot more convenient to see the end product immediately instead of waiting for an animation to reveal it.

* Examples should not have comments in the code. Explanations should be added outside of the example code.

* Please ensure the examples run on the current master when you contribute an example.

How examples are structured
---------------------------

* Examples can be organized into chapters and subchapters.

- When you create examples, the beginning example chapter should focus on only one functionality. When the functionality is simple, multiple ideas can be illustrated under a single example.

- As soon as simple functionalities are explained, the chapter may include more complex examples which build on the simpler ideas.

Writing examples
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> When you want to add/edit examples, they can be found in the ``docs/source/`` directory, or directly in the manim source code (e.g. ``manim/mobject/mobject.py``). The examples are written in ``rst`` format and use the manim directive, ``.. manim::``. Every example is in its own block, and looks like this:

Reviewer 3: can you add a link here to the manim directive?

> When you want to add/edit examples, they can be found in the ``docs/source/`` directory, or directly in the manim source code (e.g. ``manim/mobject/mobject.py``). The examples are written in ``rst`` format and use the manim directive, ``.. manim::``. Every example is in its own block, and looks like this:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you want to add/edit examples, they can be found in the ``docs/source/`` directory, or directly in the manim source code (e.g. ``manim/mobject/mobject.py``). The examples are written in ``rst`` format and use the manim directive (see     :mod:`~.manim_directive`,
), ``.. manim::``. Every example is in its own block, and looks like this:
```

Author: There is a .rst file and .py file for it
.py file’s example seems more easier to understand though
Which one should I add?

Reviewer 3: > There is a .rst file and .py file for it

what do you mean by `for it`?
And I don't understand what you mean by "add"?

Author: Yes

Author: But I did your changes and let’s see if it works

Reviewer 3: Excuse me, I think I don't understand what you want to say.

Author: I took in your suggestions and made changes accordingly.

 .. code:: rst

    Formulas

    ========

    .. manim:: Formula1

>         :quality: medium

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

should be removed, as we have a default quality for all docs examples

        :save_last_frame:

        class Formula1(Scene):
            def construct(self):
                t = MathTex(r"\int_a^b f'(x) dx = f(b)- f(a)")
                self.add(t)
                self.wait(1)

In the building process of the docs, all ``rst`` files are scanned, and the manim directive (``.. manim::``) blocks are identified as scenes, that will be run by the current version of manim.
Here is the syntax:

* ``.. manim:: [SCENE_NAME]`` has no indentation and ``SCENE_NAME`` refers to the name of the class below.

* The flags are followed in the next line (no blank line here!), with the indention level of one tab.

> * All flags can be added by having them lined up next to each other. Possible flags are:
> 
>     * ``:quality:`` medium
>        Controls render quality of the video, in analogy to the corresponding command-line flags. The default for the docs should be medium, but one can also use low or high here.
> 
>     * ``:save_last_frame:`` the last frame of the scene will be rendered and displayed, instead of a video.
> 
>     * ``:hide_source:`` Hides the python code and only shows the rendered example.
> * After the last flag, an empty line is required.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All possible flags can be found at :mod:`~.manim_directive`
```

* Finally, here comes the manim code, also with start indention level of one tab, and Python-related indention.

* After the code block, add an empty line.

In the example above, ``Formula1`` followed by ``.. manim::`` and is the scene that will be rendered, so in the python code the class must have the same name: ``class Formula1(Scene)``

.. note::

>    Sometimes, when you reload an example in your browser, it has still the old website somewhere in its cache. If this is the case, delete the website cache, or open a new "incognito" tab" in your browser, then the latest docs should be shown. If this still doesn't work, you may need to delete the contents of ``docs/source/references``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Sometimes, when you reload an example in your browser, it has still the old website somewhere in its cache. If this is the case, delete the website cache, or open a new `incognito tab` in your browser, then the latest docs should be shown. If this still doesn't work, you may need to delete the contents of ``docs/source/references``.
```

.. note::

   **Only for locally built documentation:** Sometimes, when you reload an example in your browser, it has still the old website somewhere in its cache. If this is the case, delete the website cache, or open a new `incognito tab`` 

>    in your browser, then the latest docs should be shown. If this still doesn't work, you may need to delete the contents of ``docs/source/references``.

Reviewer: The first part (reloading documentation) applies to both documentation rendered by RTD and local documentation.

Only the second part ("If this still doesn't work, ...") applies to locally built documentation.

Author: Done

       # python code here

> .. NOTE::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. NOTE::

```

Author: I think it should be .. note::
https://numpydoc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/format.html

Reviewer: I *think* it doesn't matter, but I'm fine either way.
